## Radio around the world in 1930s

The mass-media world into which radio emerged in the mid 1920s was dominated by the popular press and cinema; this was the case in Japan as it was in other developed countries. This section will offer a brief overview of this media landscape, drawing parallels and contrasts with the 'club' of powerful nations around the world that often provided models for Japan's own development.

In the UK the 1920s saw the death of much local press and the rise of cheaper nationals aimed at a general, rather than a politically partisan, mass audience [^uk]. Japan went through similar changes; regional and city newspapers --- emergence of a national press. Fall in local diversity replaced by higher --- though not particularly high --- degree of nationwide 'informational cohesion'. Both the BBC (British Broadcasting Company, later 'Corporation'), which started regular programming in 1922, and NHK (_Nihon Hōsō Kyōkai_, Japan Broadcasting Corporation), formed in 1925 and making use of ideas and structures from the BBC. The BBC, then still a private company, had become the primary source for nationwide news during the General Strike of May 1925, when newspaper production had been interrupted. Setting aside discussion of the journalistic quality of its coverage of the General Strike, the BBC demonstrated that radio could play an important national role at a time of social, and political, conflict.

[^uk]: https://www.theguardian.com/media/organgrinder/2009/aug/21/death-of-newspapers-1910

While the BBC was emphatically a _London-based_ national broadcaster, a contrasting model of region-first broadcasting was established in Germany. Radio in Germany started during 1923--4 --- as it later did in Japan --- with the establishment of local companies, in Germany's case nine of them, which were later given nationwide, and indeed international, reach by the establishment of the Deutsches Welle transmission system in 1926.

Funding for both the German and British systems relied (in part for Germany) on a license fee.  The BBC's funding model --- a 10 shilling annual licence --- had been conceived of as a way to insulate radio broadcasting from both commercial and political pressure, allowing it to achieve Director-General Reith's vision of bringing 'the best' to every household, to 'inform, educate and entertain'. This funding model was also adopted by NHK, rejecting the commercial model established by the earliest stations in the US. NHK was intimately, and 'naturally' it was thought, linked to the nation and funded through the sale of licences to owners of receiving equipment. The dominant thinking during the process of establishing on what basis NHK should be allowed to operate was that those who benefited from radio broadcasting --- primarily listeners and the manufacturers of receivers --- should pay for it. Based on an initial projection of number of probable subscribers, the cost of a monthly license was set at &yen;2 in Tokyo and Nagoya, and &yen;1.5 in Osaka. However as the number of applications for licenses far exceeded initial predictions, license fees rapidly fell, to &yen;1 in Jan 1926, then to &yen;0.75 in April 1932. By 1935 the cost of a licence had fallen to just a quarter of its original price and cost &yen;0.5.[@nhknenkan35 255].

<!-- see factsheets etc -->
