# Mass Media in 1930s Japan

This section outlines the structures and relationships between the various elements of the already existing mass media of 1930s Japan, the cinema and newspapers, with the newly emerging media of broadcast radio. I hope to show how, what we would now term 'cross-promotion' helped to integrate radio listening into the everyday life of much of the populace, especially those based in the growing cities.

## Film and Radio {.unnumbered}
<!--623-->
The development of cinema-going in Japan was similar to that in many countries; projection cinema reached Japan in 1897 with the arrival of both the French Cinématographe Lumière and the American Edison Vitasacope [@Anderson:1982, 22]. At first films were exhibited in any structure that could accommodate a screen, projector and audience, often a theatre (ie. used for dramas or live musical performances) it was not until the early 1920s that the first purpose-built cinemas appeared. By the early 1930s cinema-going was a part of daily life for many in Japan's urban centres, interest sustained by the increasingly numerous film magazines, newspaper reviews and cinema columns, and publication of screening schedules for major entertainment centres such as Tokyo's Asakusa district. <!-- Source: ∆QKJMSA -->Despite the worldwide economic depression, decreases in the price of cinema tickets led to growth in audiences at Tokyo's cinemas, centred in around Asakusa. In 1929 yearly audiences at Asakusa's 35 cinemas were in the region of 1.3 million people, for the 185 cinemas in a round Tokyo, January 1930's total audience was 4.1 million people up from the previous January's 3.3 million, and audiences for subsequent months were showing year-on-year increases of 300,000 people. ('_Nenshu roku-sen-man-en de zeikin wazuka ni-man-en_', Tokyo Asahi Shimbun, 8 July 1930, p 11)

The early content of cinema programs was a mix of domestic and imported productions, with all the diversity of opinion and form that implies. As High [-@high03, 8] points out that, until events in Manchuria tilted Japan towards war in 1931, there was little that could be identified as a consistent approach or political outlook across film-makers --- films were produced which invited sympathy for pacifism, and others that celebrated 'Japan's age-old "military spirit"';

> After 1931, and the feeling that through the intervention of foreign powers Japan had been cheated of the spoils of victory it deserved - this led to a increased determination is some quarters, including film makers, to contribute to a renewed 'steeling' of the nation. @high03[8-9]

The film industry retained a degree of diversity, often coping rather by  avoiding the issues of the day [@high03, 19], until it was finally bound to the state by means of the Film Law of 1939 [@makino00].

As far as the interactions between film and radio are concerned we can identify many which were reminiscent of that in other countries and one in particular that was a product of one of the most characteristic features of early cinema in Japan; the presence of a _benshi_ (narrator) for silent films. One early experiment involved having well-known  _benshi_ narrate live on radio; this was described by one commentator as like being stuck outside the cinema unable to get in to watch the film. This frustrating program was soon abandoned.

While radio grew into an already populated landscape of mass culture, it brought something new and revolutionary, liveness:

> The emergence of radio did more than thicken the mass-media and decades: It brought it to explosive, 'critical mass.' In the 1880s, the advent of mass-circulation newspapers had created a sense of nationwide, cultural homogeneity and, more significantly, a certain sense or 'current events' immediacy. But the impression they provided of a universally  shared moment involved a certain time lag – it was 'nowadays,' or at best, 'this week,' the past several days. The new shared moment, born with the radio, was the thoroughly modern, instantaneous now. [@high03, 27]

This property was to become increasingly important as the 1930s progressed, offering the state techniques to promote and emphasise national unity, and a oneness of mind and body that bound all Japanese to the national purpose.

## Newspapers, magazines and radio {.unnumbered}

Japan's first newspapers were effectively imports, the creations of foreigners active in the treaty ports during the years after the Meiji Restoration (1868). A genuine domestic press --- Japanese news created by Japanese reporters and editors, and aimed at a Japanese readership, had to wait until there was sufficient knowledge and experience in the local community, and the inherent difficulties of producing a newspapers in the Japanese language, with its complex non-alphabetic script, had been overcome by printers. By the start of the 1920s  the domestic newspaper market had undergone a series of transformations with changes to the variety and scale of papers, their relationship with sponsors (political and financial, often the same people), and that with their audiences having led to a newspaper 'system' --- consisting of a diversity of papers ranging from cheaper, more popular, mass circulation papers to more specialised ones aimed at a particular narrower type of reader --- that might have been recognisable in many countries around the world at the time.

> By the 1920s, newspapers like the Tokyo-based *Mainichi shinbun* or *Asahi shinbun* already reached daily circulations of more than a million copies and the inaugural issue of Kodansha's popular magazine *Kingu* sold the enormous number of 750,000 copies @schafe12[15]

The growth of radio was a boon for many newspapers, in particular the Yomiuri. In August 1923 the Yomiuri newspaper moved its headquarters to newly built premises near the modern day Ginza in Tokyo, two weeks later on 1 Sep 1923 they it destroyed in the Great Kantō Earthquake. Future television and baseball entrepreneur Shōriki Matsutaro took over as president in February 1924 and, partly thanks to his innovative attitude to coverage of the newly popular phenomenon of radio, was able to rebuild the paper over the following years. The Yomiuri was the first newspaper to publish a specific radio supplement; in 1925 its readership was still fairly small, in the region of approximately 50,000, it was said to have increased its sales by 'thousands per month' in the period after its decision to start including its pink-paper 'Yomiuri Rajio-ban' supplement [@nhk01-1 36]. By 1932 all the major Tokyo newspapers were printing a radio special, or had a page or column, dedicated to radio programming, with the intention of appealing to the gradually growing radio audience, the Yomiuri's version seems to have maintained its appeal by concentrating on reproducing the lyrics of songs scheduled to appear in the day's radio broadcasts @nhknenkan32[74--5].

Newspapers played a primary role in informing their readers of the day's radio schedule, delivering printed information into the home every morning, and for many every evening too, this was something which NHK on its own was unable to do. In the longer term this had the effect --- no doubt inevitable --- of shifting the populace's information-seeking activities away from print as radio built up its news broadcasting; over the decade from 1932 children began to obtain more and more of their information about the world from the radio;

> compared to 1932, the influence of the radio had significantly increased in 1942: 37.1% of the children obtained their news on current affairs from newspapers and the radio, 36.6% merely from the radio and only 13.3% exclusively from the press. @schafe12[58]

Radio, as both a technology and as a form of entertainment and communication, as well as providing material for the already operating newspaper industry, gave birth to an extensive popular periodical literature all of its own; the _1937 NHK Radio Yearbook_, as well as the 47 publications produced by NHK itself, lists 38 radio-related 'newspapers', including some dailies, such as the _Denki Nippō_ (Electric Times), and many other published weekly or 3 times per month. Also 35 magazines, most of which were monthlies retailing for 0.1 -- 0.8 yen per issue @nhknenkan37[313--7]. By 1941 the number of newspapers listed had declined to 31 but the magazine listing had nearly doubled to 60 @nhknenkan42[589--92], again the majority of these were monthlies. Many of these magazines were aimed at hobbyists and those interested in the rapidly developing cutting-edge technology of radio; titles often reference scientific terminology, _Ohm_ was a 0.5 yen monthly published in Kanda, Tokyo, alongside it was its slightly cheaper sister publication *Watt* (ibid. p590).

SUMMARY PAR - TODO
