## Sport and Radio {#sec:taiso}

Just as the rapid uptake of television in Japan after WW2 was associated with the consumption of live sport, baseball and wrestling in particular, widespread radio listening was also the result of enthusiasm for sport and exercise. This section discusses the relationship between radio and baseball, and the later, and still current, link between radio and the national exercise program known as 'rajio taisō' (Radio Callisthenics)

@yamagu03a discusses the early radio audience and baseball listening in Osaka

In this sense Japan was part of a worldwide movement which understood the connection between sports and the nation; the 1908 Olympics had seen athletes compete as part of national teams rather than individuals, the holding of the first Football World Cup in Uruguay, and the home team's victory were vital in raising the nation's image. Likewise Mussolini's sponsorship of sports in Italy and their dominance at the World Cup of 1934, and Germany's highly politicised hosting of the 1936 Berlin Olympic Games. In the US the media's increasing realisation that there was money in stardom and sports coupled with the emergence of baseball as a mass spectator --- and listener --- sport in the late 1920s with stars like Babe Ruth.

see @sakaue14

Re 1932 LA Olympics ---

> Despite the U.S. government’s hands-off stance, other countries injected the Olympics with political significance, perhaps none more so than Japan. Intent on making a strong showing at the ’32 Games, Japan sent the largest foreign team, at nearly 130 athletes.57 The effort was part of a drive by the Japanese government to increase the country’s international standing through victories in international sports [@keys04, 177]

> Media broadcasts of the Olympics on all traditional platforms have been framed in nationalistic terms producing the ‘communitas’ that Whannel has indicated as a powerful force in shaping their broadcast and sponsorship in the latter half of the 20th century. The first CCTV coverage of a sporting event occurred with the 1936 Berlin Olympics, where 72 hours of footage was transmitted to special television viewing booths in Germany. A short-wave radio system also transmitted accounts of the Games to 40 countries (Barney et al., 2002). @marsha10[266]

see @keys04 too - to read

Also @nhknenkan33[46--55]

Now twice per morning, 6.30 and 7am broadcasts from March 1 1933 @nhknenkan33[62], moved to 6am in April

Also @abe92[9]

> Above all baseball came into vogue. One of the oldest university baseball games, Waseda versus Keio, which still exists, started in November 1903. Waseda University sent their team to Stanford University in America in 1905. Waseda, Keio and Meiji Universities founded their biannual baseball league-match in 1914, which became, in 1925, the Base- ball League of Six Universities in Tokyo, consisting of Waseda, Keio, Meiji, Rikkyo, Hdsei and Tokyo Imperial Universities. Another annual baseball championship, the National Middle Schools' Baseball Championships, began in 1915.
> [...]
> Most sports organized their own national championships between the 1920s and 1930s. Mass communication assisted this trend. *Osaka Mainichi* newspaper sponsored the creation of Japan's Olympic Games in 1913, though it did not last long. *Asahi* newspaper also sponsored the National Middle Schools' Baseball Championships. *Nippon Hoso Kyokai* (NHK, Japan Broadcasting Corporation) started a radio broadcast of the National Middle Schools' Baseball Championships in 1927

, and ,  likewise the 1936 heavyweight boxing clash between Joe Louis and Max Schmeling was perceived by many as a clash of worldviews as well as a clash of individual sportsmen, both athletes were later used by their respective nations in wartime propaganda.

State as body; people are cells, healthy cells -> healthy body.

Radio callisthenics; this now characteristically Japanese program of national exercise was conceived as one event amongst many which marked the various ceremonies around the accession of Emperor Hirohito in the autumn of 1928. First broadcast in the spring of 1929, as part of the celebration of that year's National Foundation Day (_Kigensetsu_) on 11 February. The simple and no over strenuous exercises proved popular with radio listeners and by the time of the LA Olympics in 1932, participation in the annual summer "Radio Callisthenics Meet", according to NHK's figures was close to 26 million people, about a third of the population of Japan's home islands at the time. @nhknenkan33[56--9]

Other movements around the world: Sokol, later Nazi Germany

Training the body thus a contribution to the health of the state; could be symbolic (participation symbolising the individuals wish for the success of national policy) or potentially real (healthy adults would make better workers and soldiers)

Also mention growth in interest in nutrition - IGIN had its own regular radio spot - @hopson19[22] - and produced a popular song promoting healthy eating
